chore(blog): add marketing report (#3439)
asyncapi/website: markdown/blog/2024-marketing-report.md

---
title: "Marketing Report: December 2024"
date: 2024-12-09T06:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
tags:
  - Project Status
cover: /img/posts/marketing-images/marketing-wg.webp
authors:
  - name: Atinuke Oluwabamikemi Kayode
    photo: /img/avatars/bami.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/atinuke-oluwabamikemi-kayode-5b838b1b7/
    byline: AsyncAPI Community Marketing Specialist
excerpt: 'Marketing plays a crucial role in the success of open source projects, bridging the gap between technical excellence and community engagement. In this Marketing Working Group report, we explore how strategic campaigns, streamlined social media efforts, and targeted programs like the Student Ambassador initiative drive awareness and foster growth in the AsyncAPI community.'
featured: true
---

> Hello, everyone! I'm Bami, I’m the Community Marketing Specialist at the AsyncAPI Initiative, and I'm honored to serve as the Chair of the AsyncAPI Marketing Working Group. This role has given me a unique perspective on how we can connect and inspire our community, build awareness for AsyncAPI, and further enhance our presence in the ecosystem. I’d like to share an overview of what we’ve been doing for the past six months, the initiatives currently underway, and our plans for the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hello, everyone! I'm Bami, I’m the Community Marketing Specialist at the AsyncAPI Initiative, and I'm honored to serve as the Chair of the AsyncAPI Marketing Working Group. This role has allowed me to develop a unique perspective on how we can connect and inspire our community, build awareness for AsyncAPI, and further enhance our presence in the ecosystem. I’d like to share an overview of what we’ve been working on for the past six months, the initiatives currently underway, and our plans for the future.
```

## Overview of the Marketing Working Group

The Marketing Working Group (MWG) is the driving force behind the AsyncAPI Initiative’s external engagement, community growth, and brand awareness efforts. Our mission is to encourage an active, informed, and passionate community by promoting the tools, resources, and stories that make AsyncAPI unique. 

We aim to:

- **Increase Awareness:** Develop and implement targeted campaigns to introduce AsyncAPI to a broader audience and create a clear understanding of our mission.

- **Build Engagement:** Design strategies to strengthen our community’s connection, enhance involvement, and showcase the powerful contributions from our members.

- **Highlight Impact:** Share stories, case studies, and successes from across the community to inspire and inform potential contributors, users, and partners.

- **Drive Growth:** Attract new users, contributors, and partners through partnerships, events, and online activities that underscore AsyncAPI’s value in the tech landscape.

> By aligning our goals with AsyncAPI’s mission, the Marketing WG seeks to empower both seasoned and new members to engage deeply with the initiative. Here’s a summary of what we’ve accomplished this year and our priorities moving forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By aligning our goals with AsyncAPI’s mission, the Marketing WG seeks to empower both seasoned and new members to engage deeply with the initiative. 

Below is a summary of what we’ve accomplished this year and our priorities moving forward.
```

---
title: "Marketing Report: December 2024"
date: 2024-12-09T06:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
tags:
  - Project Status
cover: /img/posts/marketing-images/marketing-wg.webp
authors:
  - name: Atinuke Oluwabamikemi Kayode
    photo: /img/avatars/bami.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/atinuke-oluwabamikemi-kayode-5b838b1b7/
    byline: AsyncAPI Community Marketing Specialist

> excerpt: 'Marketing plays a crucial role in the success of open source projects, bridging the gap between technical excellence and community engagement. In this Marketing Working Group report, we explore how strategic campaigns, streamlined social media efforts, and targeted programs like the Student Ambassador initiative drive awareness and foster growth in the AsyncAPI community.'

Reviewer 2: please make this excerpt  shorter, to make it easy to read

featured: true
---

Hello, everyone! I'm Bami, I’m the Community Marketing Specialist at the AsyncAPI Initiative, and I'm honored to serve as the Chair of the AsyncAPI Marketing Working Group. This role has allowed me to develop a unique perspective on how we can connect and inspire our community, build awareness for AsyncAPI, and further enhance our presence in the ecosystem. I’d like to share an overview of what we’ve been working on for the past six months, the initiatives currently underway, and our plans for the future.

## Overview of the Marketing Working Group

The Marketing Working Group (MWG) is the driving force behind the AsyncAPI Initiative’s external engagement, community growth, and brand awareness efforts. Our mission is to encourage an active, informed, and passionate community by promoting the tools, resources, and stories that make AsyncAPI unique. 

We aim to:

- **Increase Awareness:** Develop and implement targeted campaigns to introduce AsyncAPI to a broader audience and create a clear understanding of our mission.

> - **Build Engagement:** Design strategies to strengthen our community’s connection, enhance involvement, and showcase the powerful contributions from our members.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Build Engagement:** Design strategies to strengthen our community’s connection, enhance involvement, and showcase the powerful contributions of our members.
```

> - **Highlight Impact:** Share stories, case studies, and successes from across the community to inspire and inform potential contributors, users, and partners.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Highlight Impact:** Share stories, case studies, and successes from the community to inspire and inform potential contributors, users, and partners.
```

- **Drive Growth:** Attract new users, contributors, and partners through partnerships, events, and online activities that underscore AsyncAPI’s value in the tech landscape.
By aligning our goals with AsyncAPI’s mission, the Marketing WG seeks to empower both seasoned and new members to engage deeply with the initiative. 

Below is a summary of what we’ve accomplished this year and our priorities moving forward.

## Accomplishments and Milestones

> For the last six months, we’ve focused on laying the groundwork for long-term growth and engagement. Our marketing initiatives have been designed to elevate AsyncAPI’s visibility, simplify our communication strategy, and ensure we’re prepared to grow alongside our community. Here’s a summary of what we’ve done so far:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’ve focused on laying the groundwork for long-term growth and engagement for the last six months. Our marketing initiatives have been designed to elevate AsyncAPI’s visibility, simplify our communication strategy, and ensure we’re prepared to grow alongside our community. Here’s a summary of what we’ve done so far:
```

- Launched targeted campaigns for our programs and events.
- Held successful online events that engaged and informed over 350 community members and prospective contributors
- Implemented regular content updates on our platforms to keep followers informed and engaged
- Initiated the Student Ambassador Programs that will bring more attention to AsyncAPI’s mission and tools, further building our presence and strengthening community ties

## Implementing Buffer for Social Media Management

To improve the efficiency and security of our social media management, we’ve introduced a paid version of Buffer for posting content across our platforms. This change enables us to streamline content scheduling, ensuring consistent, professional updates without compromising security. Importantly, using Buffer restricts access to the main social media accounts, adding a layer of protection and allowing us to manage permissions efficiently.

> Here are some of the benefit of using the Buffer subscription 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some of the benefits of using the Buffer subscription 
```

> - **Centralized Dashboard:** Manage all social media platforms from a single interface, making it easier to track and organize content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Centralized Dashboard:** Manage all social media platforms from a single interface, making tracking and organizing content easier.
```

> - **Improved Security:** No need for multiple people to log into the actual social media accounts. This minimizes risks of unauthorized changes or breaches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Improved Security:** No need for multiple people to log into the actual social media accounts. This minimizes the risks of unauthorized changes or breaches.
```

- **Better Analytics and Insights:** Access in-depth analytics to understand which posts perform and engagement metrics best and adjust strategies accordingly. 
- **Content Approval Workflow:** Allow team members to draft posts for review, ensuring high-quality content that aligns with AsyncAPI’s voice.

Please note that I currently do not have direct access to AsyncAPI’s social media accounts. Buffer provides an effective solution for posting content, monitoring performance, and maintaining the high standards of AsyncAPI's public presence without broad access.

> As part of the benefit of using Buffer, we have access to our social media analytics. Below are the analytics for LinkedIn and X (formally Twitter) from May 20th to November 26th 2024.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As part of the benefit of using Buffer, we have access to our social media analytics. Below are the analytics for LinkedIn and X (formally Twitter) from May 20th to November 26th, 2024.
```

> ![Linkedin Analytics](/img/posts/marketing-images/buffer-linkedin-report.webp)

Reviewer 2: Please add alt text/ caption for accessibility and reference to the images

> ![X Analytics](/img/posts/marketing-images/buffer-x-report.webp)

Reviewer 2: Please add alt text/ caption for accessibility and reference to the images

## Closing the Online Store

One significant change is the closure of our online store. After reviewing our budget allocations, it was clear that the store was not generating sufficient activity to justify its expenses. This decision allows us to redirect funds towards initiatives that better serve the community and our core goals. We’re considering alternative ways to share AsyncAPI merchandise in the future that are more cost-effective and in line with our community needs.

> As of June 2024, the items in the store were 2383. The goal was to disburse all of the items by December 2024.

Reviewer 3: This report is for 2024, hence the year mentioned 2024 is correct.

![Merchandise in store as at June 2024](/img/posts/marketing-images/merchandise.webp)

 Below is the breakdown of the item distribution and what we have left in the store.

- **Paris Conference:** 1518 items sent to Paris as part of conference giveaways, speakers package, and the rest to be given to the ambassadors to help them promote AsyncAPI in their communities.

- **London Conference:** 335 items shared with attendees and speakers

- **TSC Members:** 40 items packed for the TSC members to acknowledge their contributions to the community.

- **Mentors and Mentees:** 30 items distributed to mentors and mentees as tokens of appreciation for their participation in the mentorship program

> Ambassadors: 2 packages were sent to two new ambassadors, each containing 11 items. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- **Ambassadors:**  2 packages were sent to two new ambassadors, each containing 11 items. 
```

- **Community Events and Giveaways:** 25 items for various online and offline events throughout the year.

> So far, $8,264.37 has been spent on maintaining the store and logistics. As part of the benefit of closing the store, merchandise will be made locally at the event location, and others will be made as per request. [Here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1K7xo-ihlHcVoSYRg1U6SsvQDreEF1S6z/r/edit/edit?gid=1275706868#gid=1275706868) is the link to the distribution board.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So far, $8,264.37 has been spent on maintaining the store and logistics. As part of the benefit of closing the store, merchandise will be made locally at the event location, and others will be made as per request. [You can find all the information on the distribution board](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1K7xo-ihlHcVoSYRg1U6SsvQDreEF1S6z/r/edit/edit?gid=1275706868#gid=1275706868).
```

> So far, $8,264.37 has been spent on maintaining the store and logistics. As part of the benefit of closing the store, merchandise will be made locally at the event location, and others will be made as per request. [Here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1K7xo-ihlHcVoSYRg1U6SsvQDreEF1S6z/r/edit/edit?gid=1275706868#gid=1275706868) is the link to the distribution board.

Reviewer 2: The spreadsheet link is not opening

> ![Monthly Spend on The Store](/img/posts/marketing-images/store-report.webp)

Reviewer 2: Alt text here as well

> Check out our spend so far [here](https://opencollective.com/asyncapi/expenses?type=INVOICE&period=2023-12-31T23%3A00%3A00.000Z%E2%86%92all&searchTerm=Pinnacle+Branding&offset=0&limit=10)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[For more details on the store expenses, please go through our Open Collective page](https://opencollective.com/asyncapi/expenses?type=INVOICE&period=2023-12-31T23%3A00%3A00.000Z%E2%86%92all&searchTerm=Pinnacle+Branding&offset=0&limit=10)
```

## Marketing Strategy Document and Student Ambassador Program

> To guide our efforts, we’ve developed a comprehensive [Strategy Document](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/pull/1358) that outlines our objectives, priorities, and target initiatives. This document serves as a roadmap for our upcoming campaigns, events, and community engagement efforts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To guide our efforts, [we’ve developed a comprehensive Strategy Document](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/pull/1358) that outlines our objectives, priorities, and target initiatives. The document outlines our upcoming campaigns, events, and community engagement efforts.
```

> Additionally, we’re excited to introduce the [Student Ambassador Program](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/pull/1333), which aims to nurture future AsyncAPI advocates and contributors at the student level. The program will offer students guidance, resources, and community connections to help them grow within the AsyncAPI ecosystem. We believe this will strengthen our community and ensure that AsyncAPI remains a go-to resource for emerging talent.

Reviewer 2: I think it's best to specify that we are planning to introduce the student ambassador program, as it is something in the pipeline.

- **Launching the Student Ambassador Program:** Engaging students worldwide to represent and support AsyncAPI within their schools and networks

- **Promotions and Partnerships:** Expanding AsyncAPI’s reach through strategic partnerships and new promotional efforts

- **Enhanced Engagement with the Community:** Creating more opportunities for community members to participate, share ideas, and grow their skills
With these focus areas, we’re confident that AsyncAPI will continue to expand its influence and provide valuable support to both seasoned and new community members.

## Conclusion

This report highlights the strides made by the AsyncAPI Marketing Working Group, including targeted campaigns, streamlined social media management with Buffer, impactful merchandise distribution, the introduction of a comprehensive strategy document, and the launch of the Student Ambassador Program. We've also made strategic decisions, such as closing the online store, to optimize our budget for initiatives that deliver greater value to the community.

So far, our social media analytics are looking good.

> ![Buffer General Report](/img/posts/marketing-images/buffer-report.webp)

Reviewer 2: Alt text please

Looking ahead, our focus will be on implementing the strategy document, fostering community growth, launching the Student Ambassador Program, and driving impactful promotions and partnerships. These efforts aim to strengthen the AsyncAPI ecosystem and create meaningful opportunities for collaboration and engagement.

> If you have any questions, suggestions, or ideas, please feel free to reach out to me on Slack @Bami. Here’s to another successful year of growth, collaboration, and impact. 

Reviewer 2: You can add your Slack ID link

- **Content Approval Workflow:** Allow team members to draft posts for review, ensuring high-quality content that aligns with AsyncAPI’s voice.

Please note that I currently do not have direct access to AsyncAPI’s social media accounts. Buffer provides an effective solution for posting content, monitoring performance, and maintaining the high standards of AsyncAPI's public presence without broad access.

As part of the benefit of using Buffer, we have access to our social media analytics. Below are the analytics for LinkedIn from January 1st to December 12th, 2024.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/linkedIn-metrics-insights.webp"
  alt="Graph showing AsyncAPI LinkedIn follower growth"
  caption="AsyncAPI LinkedIn graph showing the followers growth from Buffer analytics."
  className="text-center"
/>

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/linkedin-performance-statistics.webp"
  alt="Image showing AsyncAPI LinkedIn performance including follower growth, engagement rates, and post performance over time"
  caption="AsyncAPI LinkedIn performance statistics from Buffer analytics."
  className="text-center"
/>
 

> In 2024, our LinkedIn performance saw impressive growth: a 48% increase in followers (3,910 total), 104% more impressions (100,328), and 91% more new followers (911). Engagement soared with a 219% rise in clicks (4,295 total) and a 9% improved engagement rate (5.32%). We also published 44% more posts (233), highlighting consistent content efforts. It has been difficult to track the exact numbers on X formally (Twitter). Hence, we will not be sharing any data from X at this time.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In 2024, our LinkedIn performance saw impressive growth: a 48% increase in followers (3,910 total), 104% more impressions (100,328), and 91% more new followers (911). Engagement soared with a 219% rise in clicks (4,295 total) and a 9% improved engagement rate (5.32%). We also published 44% more posts (233), highlighting consistent content efforts. 

Tracking our performance on X (formally Twitter) has not been easy. Buffer does not have access to historical data. We can see numbers that show our performance since we connected Buffer in September. We do not have data that we could share and show how our performance improved as we do not have such.
```

This collaborative approach ensures that diverse perspectives guide our efforts and allows the Marketing Working Group to act as a bridge between AsyncAPI’s community and its stakeholders. We'd love to hear from you if you have ideas or want to contribute!

## Conclusion

This report highlights the strides made by the AsyncAPI Marketing Working Group, including targeted campaigns, streamlined social media management with Buffer, impactful merchandise distribution, the introduction of a comprehensive strategy document, and the launch of the Student Ambassador Program. We've also made strategic decisions, such as closing the online store, to optimize our budget for initiatives that deliver greater value to the community.

Looking ahead, our focus will be on implementing the strategy document, fostering community growth, launching the Student Ambassador Program, and driving impactful promotions and partnerships. These efforts aim to strengthen the AsyncAPI ecosystem and create meaningful opportunities for collaboration and engagement.

> If you have any questions, suggestions, or ideas, please feel free to reach out to me on Slack [Atinuke (Bami) Kayode](https://asyncapi.slack.com/archives/D070U11CU1G).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have any questions, suggestions, or ideas, please feel free to reach out to me on Slack [Atinuke (Bami) Kayode](https://asyncapi.slack.com/team/U070DE02VQX).
```

    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/atinuke-oluwabamikemi-kayode-5b838b1b7/
    byline: AsyncAPI Community Marketing Specialist
excerpt: 'Marketing is key to open source success, connecting technical excellence with community engagement. It highlights strategic initiatives and SM efforts'
featured: true
---

Hello, everyone! I'm Bami, I’m the Community Marketing Specialist at the AsyncAPI Initiative, and I'm honored to serve as the Chair of the AsyncAPI Marketing Working Group. This role has allowed me to develop a unique perspective on how we can connect and inspire our community, build awareness for AsyncAPI, and further enhance our presence in the ecosystem. I’d like to share an overview of what we’ve been working on for the past six months, the initiatives currently underway, and our plans for the future.

## Overview of the Marketing Working Group

The Marketing Working Group (MWG) is the driving force behind the AsyncAPI Initiative’s external engagement, community growth, and brand awareness efforts. Our mission is to encourage an active, informed, and passionate community by promoting the tools, resources, and stories that make AsyncAPI unique. 

> We aim to:

Reviewer: I am assuming the points mentioned are key ones and the list is definitely non-exhaustive, hence suggesting this change
```suggestion
Some of the things we aim to accomplish:
```

- **Increase Awareness:** Develop and implement targeted campaigns to introduce AsyncAPI to a broader audience and create a clear understanding of our mission.

- **Build Engagement:** Design strategies to strengthen our community’s connection, enhance involvement, and showcase the powerful contributions of our members.

- **Highlight Impact:** Share stories, case studies, and successes from the community to inspire and inform potential contributors, users, and partners.

- **Drive Growth:** Attract new users, contributors, and partners through partnerships, events, and online activities that underscore AsyncAPI’s value in the tech landscape.

> By aligning our goals with AsyncAPI’s mission, the Marketing WG seeks to empower both seasoned and new members to engage deeply with the initiative. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By aligning our goals with AsyncAPI’s mission, the MWG seeks to empower both seasoned and new members to engage deeply with the initiative. 
```

Below is a summary of what we’ve accomplished this year and our priorities moving forward.

## Accomplishments and Milestones

> We’ve focused on laying the groundwork for long-term growth and engagement for the last six months. Our marketing initiatives have been designed to elevate AsyncAPI’s visibility, simplify our communication strategy, and ensure we’re prepared to grow alongside our community. Here’s a summary of what we’ve done so far:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve focused on laying the groundwork for long-term growth and engagement for the last six months. Our marketing initiatives have been designed to elevate AsyncAPI’s visibility, simplify our communication strategy, and ensure we’re prepared to grow alongside our community. 

Here’s a summary of what we’ve done so far:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Here’s a summary of what we’ve done so far:

> - Launched targeted campaigns for our programs and events.

Reviewer 4: provide a bit more description, like what campaigns - that social media focused for now, that we have community of designers that work on media, etc

> - Held successful online events that engaged and informed over 350 community members and prospective contributors

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Held successful online event that engaged and informed over 350 community members and prospective contributors
```

give people a chance to see more, link to some more resources, in this case probably the main conference recording

> - Implemented regular content updates on our platforms to keep followers informed and engaged

Reviewer 4: so please do not need to read more, you can provide just a simple number from further stats, like regular means that we publish "x" amount of info on socials and in general increased from x to y

> - Initiated the Student Ambassador Programs that will bring more attention to AsyncAPI’s mission and tools, further building our presence and strengthening community ties

Reviewer 4: it is not yet initiated right? we just started discussion, but PR is still open, we are not 100% how the program will look like really

## Implementing Buffer for Social Media Management

To improve the efficiency and security of our social media management, we’ve introduced a paid version of Buffer for posting content across our platforms. This change enables us to streamline content scheduling, ensuring consistent, professional updates without compromising security. Importantly, using Buffer restricts access to the main social media accounts, adding a layer of protection and allowing us to manage permissions efficiently.

Here are some of the benefits of using the Buffer subscription

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- **Better Analytics and Insights:** Access in-depth analytics to understand which posts perform and engagement metrics best and adjust strategies accordingly. 
- **Content Approval Workflow:** Allow team members to draft posts for review, ensuring high-quality content that aligns with AsyncAPI’s voice.

Please note that I currently do not have direct access to AsyncAPI’s social media accounts. Buffer provides an effective solution for posting content, monitoring performance, and maintaining the high standards of AsyncAPI's public presence without broad access.

As part of the benefit of using Buffer, we have access to our social media analytics. Below are the analytics for LinkedIn and X (formally Twitter) from May 20th to December 10th, 2024.

![AsyncAPI LinkedIn engagement metrics showing follower growth and post metrics from Buffer analytics](/img/posts/marketing-images/linkedIn-metrics-insights.webp)

![AsyncAPI LinkedIn engagement metrics showing follower growth and post performance from Buffer analytics](/img/posts/marketing-images/linkedin-performance-statistics.webp)

> The images above show the LinkedIn performance is great. Here’s a breakdown of our LinkedIn metrics from Buffer’s analysis:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The images above show that LinkedIn's performance is great. Here’s a breakdown of our LinkedIn metrics from Buffer’s analysis:
```

- **Followers:** We’ve grown to 3,905 followers, marking a 19% increase in our audience size. 

- **Impressions:** Our posts were seen 68,440 times, a remarkable 120% growth, indicating broader visibility. 

- **New Followers:** We gained 620 new followers, reflecting a 119% increase in audience acquisition. 

- **Clicks:** Our content drove 3,213 clicks, an impressive 205% growth, showcasing heightened interest and engagement.

- **Posts:** We published 176 posts, up by 209%, emphasizing consistent and active content sharing. 

- **Engagement Rate:** Our engagement rate reached 5.83%, improving by 31%, indicating stronger interactions with our audience. 

Our LinkedIn efforts are yielding fantastic results, with significant growth in visibility, engagement, and audience acquisition. The impressive metrics reflect the value and relevance of our content. However, we're still up for improvement.

![AsyncAPI Twitter (X) engagement metrics showing follower growth and tweet metrics from Buffer analytics](/img/posts/marketing-images/x-metrics-insights.webp)

> ![AsyncAPI Twitter (X) engagement metrics showing follower growth and tweet performance from Buffer analytics](/img/posts/marketing-images/x-performance-statistics.webp)

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure we should share that numbers, they are kinda weird and not realistic - if you look closely at percentage, it looks like in the same period in previous year we did not post a single thing. In buffer when you see the diagram, you have a slider "previous period" and then you turn it on, line showing previous period shows 0 all the time - not possible

The X (Twitter) performance overview indicates our incredible performance growth:

- **Tweets:** Shared an impressive 254 tweets, marking a staggering 25,300% increase. 

> - **Replies:** Engaged in 10 replies, growing by 1,000%, highlighting our community members are beginning to take interest in our X posts. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Replies:** Engaged in 10 replies, growing by 1,000%, highlighting our community members are beginning to take an interest in our X posts. 
```

- **Mentors and Mentees:** 30 items distributed to mentors and mentees as tokens of appreciation for their participation in the mentorship program

- **Ambassadors:** 2 packages were sent to two new ambassadors, each containing 11 items. 

- **Community Events and Giveaways:** 25 items for various online and offline events throughout the year.

So far, $8,264.37 has been spent on maintaining the store and logistics. As part of the benefit of closing the store, merchandise will be made locally at the event location, and others will be made as per request. [You can find all the information on the distribution board](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1K7xo-ihlHcVoSYRg1U6SsvQDreEF1S6z/r/edit/edit?gid=1275706868#gid=1275706868).

![Graph showing monthly expenditure breakdown for the AsyncAPI merchandise store](/img/posts/marketing-images/store-report.webp)

[For more details on the store expenses, please go through our Open Collective page](https://opencollective.com/asyncapi/expenses?type=INVOICE&period=2023-12-31T23%3A00%3A00.000Z%E2%86%92all&searchTerm=Pinnacle+Branding&offset=0&limit=10)

## Marketing Strategy Document and Student Ambassador Program

> To guide our efforts, [we’ve developed a comprehensive Strategy Document](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/pull/1358) that outlines our objectives, priorities, and target initiatives. The document outlines our upcoming campaigns, events, and community engagement efforts.

Reviewer 4: it's not yet merged, so we are rather developing

## Community Growth and Future Focus Areas

Our community has continued to grow steadily, with increasing participation in events, discussions, and open-source contributions. This growth underscores the need for a well-coordinated strategy that both attracts new members and retains existing contributors.
Looking forward, we’ll focus on:

- **Implementing the Strategy Document:** Utilizing our strategic roadmap to guide all our activities and initiatives

- **Launching the Student Ambassador Program:** Engaging students worldwide to represent and support AsyncAPI within their schools and networks

- **Promotions and Partnerships:** Expanding AsyncAPI’s reach through strategic partnerships and new promotional efforts

- **Enhanced Engagement with the Community:** Creating more opportunities for community members to participate, share ideas, and grow their skills

> With these focus areas, we’re confident that AsyncAPI will continue to expand its influence and provide valuable support to both seasoned and new community members.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

With these focus areas, we’re confident that AsyncAPI will continue to expand its influence and provide valuable support to both seasoned and new community members.
```

## Sponsor Involvement in the Marketing Working Group

> The Marketing Working Group thrives on collaboration, and we’re fortunate to have active participation from representatives of our sponsors, including Christophe Dujarric from Bump.sh and Georgie Burrows from Gravitee.io. Their insights, ideas, and expertise are invaluable in shaping the group’s direction and ensuring that AsyncAPI’s marketing strategies align with the broader goals of our sponsors and the community.

Reviewer 2: Add links to their profiles, and company page

## Who can Join the Marketing Working Group?

> The working group is designed to be inclusive, welcoming not just sponsor representatives but also any community members who wish to contribute. Whether it’s sharing ideas, providing feedback, or helping execute campaigns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The working group is designed to be inclusive and welcoming, not just sponsor representatives but also any community members who wish to contribute. Whether it’s sharing ideas, providing feedback, or helping execute campaigns.
```

> This collaborative approach ensures that we have diverse perspectives guiding our efforts and allows the Marketing Working Group to act as a bridge between AsyncAPI’s community and its stakeholders. If you have ideas or want to contribute, we’d love to hear from you!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This collaborative approach ensures that diverse perspectives guide our efforts and allows the Marketing Working Group to act as a bridge between AsyncAPI’s community and its stakeholders. We'd love to hear from you if you have ideas or want to contribute!
```

## Conclusion

This report highlights the strides made by the AsyncAPI Marketing Working Group, including targeted campaigns, streamlined social media management with Buffer, impactful merchandise distribution, the introduction of a comprehensive strategy document, and the launch of the Student Ambassador Program. We've also made strategic decisions, such as closing the online store, to optimize our budget for initiatives that deliver greater value to the community.

So far, our social media analytics are looking good.

> ![Overall social media performance metrics from Buffer showing engagement across all platforms](/img/posts/marketing-images/buffer-report.webp)

Reviewer 4: do we need this diagram, what new is it showing for the conclusion remarks?

- **Improved Security:** No need for multiple people to log into the actual social media accounts. This minimizes the risks of unauthorized changes or breaches.
- **Better Analytics and Insights:** Access in-depth analytics to understand which posts perform and engagement metrics best and adjust strategies accordingly. 
- **Content Approval Workflow:** Allow team members to draft posts for review, ensuring high-quality content that aligns with AsyncAPI’s voice.

Please note that I currently do not have direct access to AsyncAPI’s social media accounts. Buffer provides an effective solution for posting content, monitoring performance, and maintaining the high standards of AsyncAPI's public presence without broad access.

As part of the benefit of using Buffer, we have access to our social media analytics. Below are the analytics for LinkedIn and X (formally Twitter) from January 1st to December 12th, 2024.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/linkedIn-metrics-insights.webp"
  alt="Graph showing AsyncAPI LinkedIn metrics including follower growth, engagement rates, and post performance over time"

>   caption="AsyncAPI LinkedIn graph showing metrics insights from Buffer analytics."

Reviewer 4: the graph is related to followers growth, the other image is about more. But the diagram itself is just followers, so please make it clear in `alt` and `caption`

  className="text-center"
/>

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/linkedin-performance-statistics.webp"
  alt="Graph showing AsyncAPI LinkedIn performance including follower growth, engagement rates, and post performance over time"
  caption="AsyncAPI LinkedIn performance statistics from Buffer analytics."
  className="text-center"
/>
 

In 2024, our LinkedIn performance saw impressive growth: a 48% increase in followers (3,910 total), 104% more impressions (100,328), and 91% more new followers (911). Engagement soared with a 219% rise in clicks (4,295 total) and a 9% improved engagement rate (5.32%). We also published 44% more posts (233), highlighting consistent content efforts.

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/marketing-images/x-metrics-insights.webp"
  alt="Graph showing AsyncAPI X metrics including follower growth, engagement rates, and post performance over time"

>   caption="AsyncAPI Twitter (X) mereics insights from Buffer analytics."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  caption="AsyncAPI Twitter (X) metrics insights from Buffer analytics."
```
